source/libs/harfbuzz/harfbuzz-src/BUILD.md, before:

On Linux, install the development packages for FreeType,
Cairo, and GLib. For example, on Ubuntu / Debian, you would do:

    sudo apt-get install meson pkg-config ragel gtk-doc-tools gcc g++ libfreetype6-dev libglib2.0-dev libcairo2-dev

whereas on Fedora, RHEL, CentOS, and other Red Hat based systems you would do:

    sudo dnf install meson pkgconfig gtk-doc gcc gcc-c++ freetype-devel glib2-devel cairo-dev

and on ArchLinux and Manjaro:

    sudo pacman -Suy meson pkg-config ragel gcc freetype2 glib2 cairo

then use meson to build the project like `meson build && meson test -Cbuild`.

On macOS, `brew install pkg-config ragel gtk-doc freetype glib cairo meson` then use
meson like above.

On Windows, meson can build the project like above if a working MSVC's cl.exe (`vcvarsall.bat`)
or gcc/clang is already on your path, and if you use something like `meson build --wrap-mode=default`
it fetches and compiles most of the dependencies also.

Our CI configurations is also a good source of learning how to build HarfBuzz.

There is also amalgam source provided with HarfBuzz which reduces whole process of building
HarfBuzz like `g++ src/harfbuzz.cc -fno-exceptions` but there is not guarantee provided
with buildability and reliability of features you get.

Commit message:

Sync with experimental
git-svn-id: https://serveur-svn.lri.fr/svn/modhel/luatex/trunk@7519 0b2b3880-5936-4365-a048-eb17d2e5a6bf

source/libs/harfbuzz/harfbuzz-src/BUILD.md, after:

On Linux, install the development packages for FreeType,
Cairo, and GLib. For example, on Ubuntu / Debian, you would do:

    sudo apt-get install meson pkg-config ragel gtk-doc-tools gcc g++ libfreetype6-dev libglib2.0-dev libcairo2-dev

whereas on Fedora, RHEL, CentOS, and other Red Hat based systems you would do:

    sudo dnf install meson pkgconfig gtk-doc gcc gcc-c++ freetype-devel glib2-devel cairo-dev

and on ArchLinux and Manjaro:

    sudo pacman -Suy meson pkg-config ragel gcc freetype2 glib2 cairo

then use meson to build the project like `meson build && meson test -Cbuild`.

On macOS, `brew install pkg-config ragel gtk-doc freetype glib cairo meson` then use
meson like above.

On Windows, meson can build the project like above if a working MSVC's cl.exe (`vcvarsall.bat`)
or gcc/clang is already on your path, and if you use something like `meson build --wrap-mode=default`
it fetches and compiles most of the dependencies also.  It is recommended to install CMake either
manually or via the Visual Studio installer when building with MSVC when building with meson.

Our CI configurations is also a good source of learning how to build HarfBuzz.

There is also amalgam source provided with HarfBuzz which reduces whole process of building
HarfBuzz like `g++ src/harfbuzz.cc -fno-exceptions` but there is not guarantee provided
with buildability and reliability of features you get.
